---
templateKey: blog-post
title: 'Jaipur: The Pink City'
featuredImage: /img/img_9408.jpg
date: 2018-11-03T14:00:19.669Z
description: November 2017
tags:
  - Jaipur
  - Rajasthan
  - India
  - Asia
---
Until the most recent time that I visited Jaipur, I really didn’t like it. I often described Jaipur as having all of the chaos of other Indian cities, with none of the charm. Despite the fact that I didn’t like Jaipur, I often fly into India via Jaipur, so have visited three times now. Jaipur is the capital city of the state of Rajasthan, and is the tenth most populated city in India. With a population of 3.1 million, it’s not like quaint little Udaipur or Pushkar. Instead, the air pollution is noticeable and it can take an outrageously long time to travel even small distances because of the ever-present traffic jams.What to do in Jaipur:Visit Amber FortAmber Fort is the most popular attraction in Jaipur and by far my favourite site to visit. It’s located in a town called Amer, 11km from Jaipur. The fort is built high on a hill, overlooking Maota Lake and the road below. Amber Fort is huge, but by the middle of the day, it’s totally crowded with tourists. It’s open from 8am, and to beat the crowds and heat I’d definitely advise visiting for opening time. Tickets cost xx rupees, but offer a discount to students who bring a student ID with them (down to xx rupees). Don’t ride elephants.Amer StepwellThe first two times that I visited Jaipur, I totally missed this! It’s not easy to find, and if someone hasn’t told you about it, it’s unlikely that you’ll stumble upon it. I read about this stepwell on Lillian Scott’s blog, and it was so magical to be able to visit on my next visit to Jaipur – so much so that Kate and I visited twice! In short, the easiest thing to do is probably to get a tuk tuk to Amber Fort and also let your driver know that you want to spend some time in Amer town. They’ll normally drive you to the Fort and then wait for you to finish looking around. We had planned to just walk through Amer and try and find the stepwells, but we were lucky enough that our tuk tuk driver knew where we wanted to go and knew where the stepwells were so drove us there and waited for us. Based off the photos I’d seen of the stepwells, I was really excited to be able to go down to all the steps and take some really cool photos. Unfortunately though, Hawa MahalHawa Mahal, translated to ‘Palace of the Winds’, and affectionately known as the Pink Palace is seriously worth a visit. You can go inside Hawa Mahal, and given that it’s so inexpensive (50 Rs = $1AUD), it’s probably worth it. The best views though of the palace however, are actually from the outside. For the best view of Hawa Mahal, head to Wind View Café. It has an amazing view of the palace, the food is reasonably priced, and the guys who work there are really friendly. It’s so nice to be able to chill out on this rooftop and have such great views. Where to stay in Jaipur:If you’re looking for budget accommodation, XX is a great option. I stayed there the most recent time that I visited Jaipur, and the rooms were good, wifi worked, the owners were super friendly and there was a good rooftop restaurant. For those not on a budget, I’ve seen these places online and they look amazing!In terms of whether I would recommend visiting Jaipur or not, in my opinion, it really depends on how much time you have to spend in India. There are a lot of places I’d recommend over Jaipur… Rishikesh, Udaipur, Jaisalmer and Pushkar to name a few. Having said that, sometimes it makes sense to either fly into Jaipur or travel through the city, and if this is the case, it’s worth spending a day or two exploring the Pink City. Also, if you’re not pushed for time, then why not spend a couple of days in Jaipur, making up your own mind on what you think of the city.
