---
templateKey: blog-post
title: Milos; my favourite Greek Island.
featuredImage: /img/thumb_img_4374_1024.jpg
date: 2018-11-03T09:34:01.534Z
description: July 2018
tags:
  - Milos
  - Greece
  - Europe
---
It’s no secret that the Greek Islands are incredible.Milos was something else. The landscapes were utterly unique and seriously breathtaking. Where we stayedBased on my sister’s recommendation we decided to stay in Adamantas, the port town of Milos. I’d recommend staying in this area as it’s central to the various beaches you’ll want to explore, has lots of shops and restaurants, but still doesn’t feel overly crowded. In reality though, Milos is quite a small island and even if you decide to stay in Plaka, Polonia or any of the other towns, you’ll be totally fine, as long as you hire a moped/quad. If you’re going to rely on getting around by bus, then I’d definitely recommend staying in Adamantas as this is where all the buses leave from. We decided to splurge a little bit in Milos and book our own room in a relatively nice guesthouse. Prices vary wildly depending on which month you visit, but we stayed at Soulis Studios and paid Where we ateOn our first day in Milos we stumbled across Artermis Bakery down by the port. They sold lots of baked goods, but the focaccias caught our eye, and much to our delight they happened to be vegan. Every day we stocked up on olive focaccias and tomato, capsicum & olive focaccias for breakfast and lunch. They were ridiculously good. Despite the fact that we pretty much rolled off Milos as one big pile of bread, eating the focaccias for breakfast and lunch everyday was a great way of keeping costs down (each focaccia was huge and only cost 2 euros) and also meant we were able to pack a vegan lunch to eat while we were at the beach.On our first night, we wandered down to the seaside to check out a cute little restaurant, lit up by fairy lights, that we’d driven past earlier that day. Mikros Apoplous, Apodo and Trapatseles are all next to each other and offer a similar menu. We chose to eat at Apodo because the vegan options looked better. We happily watched the sunset while eating beautiful stuffed tomatoes and capsicums with Greek oven baked potatoes. We had such a lovely time, that we came back every single night that we were on Milos. It was great value too – a starter and two mains always came in at less than 20 euros.What we didYou want to allow at least 4 days on Milos so that you have plenty of time to explore all of the ridiculous landscapes Milos has on offer. We could have happily spent a week or two on Milos.Sarakiniko: the one that’s really the moon. Sarakiniko is probably the most iconic ‘beach’ on Milos.I loved Sarakiniko so much that I insisted we visit it three times.The major drawback of Sarakiniko was the amount of plastic rubbish there was in the water. Right in the area where everyone was swimming, there was a mini island of plastic that had formed. Papafragkas
